All right, so we're getting into some cool stuff now with these scripts, I'm going to show you how
to add some nice logging to your script here.
Copy your current one, 'usage.sh' and make one called 'logging.sh'...that just saves some typing there.
So we have our help and our version there.
OK, so this is kind of a long command, but it's pretty useful:
inside of a variable, change directory into another variable
I'll put that in quotes, too.
So we're going to say 'dirname' to get the directory name...
$BASH_SOURCE
in close that out.
That's going to go--we're just going to hide the output of that.
And this part I haven't shown yet, but you don't really need to know about it right now.
I've shown you the end and that's only going to run this 'pwd' command if the command is successful.
That's right.
OK
OK, so that's good.
So here I ran it with 'bash -x', so you can see what's going on.
So basically that giant command
we did said get the directory name of our script that we're running right now, 'cd' there, and print
the working directory.
Then that variable is now set to $DIR.
So this will always know where our script is.
And then we can start adding--well, let's add one more place--one more variable
of where our log file is going to be. So set this to 'readonly'.  I haven't shown you this yet, but it's
just a way to make sure this variable does not change.
So it's just a good practice to do.  So,
we'll say, '$DIR',  using the directory from above,
and then we use 'basename'.
So now we're just going to grab just the--just the name--if we happen to have '.sh' in our script name,
this is going to grab just the name of it.
Just a little trick.
Put that * there.
and we'll name it '.log'.
So there you can see...
our file name for a script is logging.sh, so it's that little last thing that we put in there.
It's going to set a log file to the name of our script without the .sh on there.
So it matches and then it'll just be logging.log.
So that'll work for any script name that you happen to name it.
OK.
So now we can just add a few more...
lines here for different things--and these are actually going to be functions.  I'm just going to
put them all on one line so it's kind of easy to see.
So let's just make a simple informational one.
And I'm just going to put some spaces in here, so the formatting is nice...'echo'.
So this is what it's actually show up in the log messages, '[INFO]'.
and then here we're going to use the pipe again, and this is a new command for you: 'tee'. This command will
show the output on the screen and then it's going to also append it to a file of our choice, which we
already made this log file here.
So we'll just do that.
And that says not to do the errors on there. There.
It was not uniform.
Change this to...how about '[WARNING]'
to find
let's add one for like '[DEBUG]'
There, so now
you have three functions that you can use instead of 'echo', so that should do it.
So I'll save that.
And now any time you want to write some information...
you can just say 'info some info'.
logging.sh...now if we look, we should have a logging.log with the same same information.
So that's a slick little way to have--have it do some logging for you so you can just keep running that and
then it will just keep appending to that log file.
So that's a nice little way to have some built in logging to your shell script.